We have now spent a very long time around sign up.
But we are all done really for real this time.
So now going to start to move on to our next route handler.
And believe me, everything else inside of the service is going to go forward much more, much more
quickly.
We've really covered all the really big topics we need to be aware of.
So now we get to breeze through everything else inside of here.
So in this video, we're going to start to put together our sign in route.
So our React application or right now, postman is going to make a request to sign into our application.
When they do so, they're going to supply an email and password, and then we're going to go through
the following series of steps.
We're going to first take a look into our MongoDB database and see if a user with this email exists.
If the email that was supplied inside the request doesn't exist or is not tied to any user inside of
our database, then it must be an invalid login request so we will respond with an error immediately
if that is the case.
Now, assuming that we do find a user, we're going to compare the passwords of the stored user and
the supplied password present inside that request.
And remember, we already put together a method to inside that password service thing or that password
service class to handle password comparison.
If the two passwords are identical, then hey, fantastic.
We'll now consider this user to be logged in.
So we are going to send them a JSON web token in that cookie using the same kind of strategy as what
we did back inside of sign up over here.
Okay.
So with all that in mind, let's get to it.
I'm going to flip on over to my sign and file.
We've already got a little bit of code inside of here already.
So we'll go ahead and start to augment this.
The first thing we're going to do is do some validation on the incoming request.
So I'm going to add in an import statement.
Poor body.
From Express Validator.
Remember, this is a method that can be used as a middleware to validate incoming data on the body of
this post request.
So I'm going to put an array inside of here.
Just to organize these different validation functions.
We're going to do some very similar validation to what we did back inside of Sign Up.
So let's do a check for email.
We'll make sure that it looks like an email.
And I'll put in a custom message if something is wrong with it.
So we'll say email must be valid.
Then as a second entry inside this array.
So note the comma over here we will put in body.
And we're going to check the password this time.
We will go ahead and do that sanitization step of trimming it to remove any spaces on the left or the
right hand side of the supplied password.
In this case, we do not need to check to see if the length is valid because our validation rules or
exactly what a password is might change over time.
It might be that at some point in the past we allowed passwords all the way up to 30 characters, whereas
now the limit or the maximum is 20.
If we just arbitrarily put on some validation, step on the password right here, that would lock out
any existing users who do not or who have passwords that don't follow these rules.
We will, however, require that a password is supplied.
So to check for that, we're going to put in a check right here.
We're going to look for is or not empty like so.
So if the password that is supplied is an empty string, this is going to throw an error.
Well, then put on a custom message once again.
We'll say something like, you must supply a password that will work.
Get.
That looks good.
So now we'll go down into our actual body down here.
I'm going to delete that resend for now.
You'll notice that we are getting an air around rec and rez now.
That's because TypeScript is no longer doing some type in inference for us, which it was able to do
when we only had two arguments being passed into post.
So just as we did before, back inside of sign up, we have to import.
The types of request and response from Express at the very top and then use those types to annotate
these arguments.
The request.
And response.
Then inside of here, once again, just like we did back inside of sign up, we need to take a look
and see if anything went wrong during that validation attempt.
So we essentially need to duplicate the exact same logic that we've got over inside of our sign up request
handler right here.
It's kind of unfortunate to have to duplicate this stuff directly over.
So as you imagine, this might be a good location or a good time to try to figure out how to make this
air checking code a little bit more reusable.
But right now, let's just rewrite the same thing.
So I'm going to check to see if there are any errors.
By doing a validation result on the incoming request.
Validation result is a function that is coming from that express validator library up here.
So right after, buddy, we're going to make sure we also import validation results.
That's going to give us back any ears on that request.
Well, then check to see if it is empty.
So this thing is not empty.
Then something's wrong.
We should throw in air.
And remember, we put together an air specifically for this purpose inside of our ears directory, there
is that air we had put together of request, validation, error.
So let's import that into this file, and then we could throw it from right here.
So at the top, I'm going to import.
Request validation error from up one directory errors request validation error.
Then back down here.
Okay.
If the area is not empty, throw new request validation air.
And remember, the requirement here is we pass in the array of errors.
We'll pass an errors dot array like so.
Yes, Alex.
Good.
So already we can start to test this out.
Before we do so, however, let's just make sure that we had already wired this sign in router right
here up to our express application back inside of the index file.
So back inside of indexes.
At the very top, we can double check and just make sure that we did wire up or import that router and
then make sure that it actually got connected to our express application.
Yep, definitely did.
All right, so now we can go back over to Postman.
We'll try to make a request to API users, sign in and supply a invalid email or password and just verify
that we're seeing some appropriate validation info.
As a matter of fact, I just noticed I got a typo right there around supply, so definitely worth doing.
Very small little test every now and then.
So I'm going to make a request to API users.
Sign in.
And I'll first tried to supply an email that is not valid.
There we go.
So email must be valid.
If I put in an email that is valid.
But I have an empty password.
I'll see.
You must apply a password.
Very good.
Now, if we put in some valid email and password, the request is just going to hang.
And that's because we are not actually responding to the request at any point in time.
Okay.
So this looks like a good start.
But as I mentioned, we've now got some very much duplicated logic inside of here.
And as you can guess, there's probably going to be many other route handlers inside of our application
and other services that are going to need to have identical logic.
So chances are we should try to extract this into some kind of helper middleware that will take care
of this validation stuff for us automatically.
Let's take care of that in the next video.